[DOC-8863] Document Folders UI (#18139)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/folders.md

## Initial setup

Your user account must have the following roles to manage access to folders:

> - [Org Administrator]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#org-administrator)

Author: Updated this, I think it's much better.

> - [Org Administrator]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#org-administrator)

Reviewer: That looks good now!

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
To create clusters in a folder, the member must also have the `CLUSTER_ADMIN` or `CLUSTER_CREATOR` role on that folder or by inheritance.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

To grant the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role:

1. On the **Access Management** page, locate the team member's details whose role you want to change.
1. In the row for the target member, click the three-dots **Action** button and select **Edit Roles**.
1. Set **Scope** to **Organization** or to a folder in the hierarchy. The role is granted on all of the folder's descendants.
1. Set **Role** to **Folder Admin** or **Folder Mover**.
1. Click **Confirm**.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
After your desired folder structure is in place, you could revoke the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role from the organization and grant it on individual folders instead. A recommended security practice is to limit the users or service accounts with `FOLDER_ADMIN` at the level of the organization. When you [create a folder](#create-a-folder), you can grant the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role at the level of the folder.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> ## Create a folder

Author: When we have a UI we tend to focus on the UI in the narrative docs, and link to the API and Terraform docs. The API method here introduced complications like needing to provision a service account, and I believe that was always considered non-ideal.

Your service account must have the following roles on the organization, the folder, or by inheritance:

- [Folder Admin]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#folder-admin)

1. Go to the **Clusters** page. The folders and clusters at the root of the organization are shown.
1. If you have permission to create folders at the root of the organization, the **Create folder** displays. Click it to create a folder.
1. In **Folder name**, provide a name for the folder.

> 1. In **Folder location** select one of the following. Only locations where you have permission to create folders are shown.

Author: No, it's supposed to refer to the sub-list. I have updated it a bit.

> 1. In **Folder location** select one of the following. Only locations where you have permission to create folders are shown.

Reviewer: Looks good!

1. On the **Access Management** page, locate the team member's details whose role you want to change.
1. In the row for the target member, click the three-dots **Action** button and select **Edit Roles**.
1. Set **Scope** to **Organization** or to a folder in the hierarchy. The role is granted on all of the folder's descendants.
1. Set **Role** to **Folder Admin** or **Folder Mover**.
1. Click **Confirm**.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
After your desired folder structure is in place, you could revoke the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role from the organization and grant it on individual folders instead. A recommended security practice is to limit the users or service accounts with `FOLDER_ADMIN` at the level of the organization. When you [create a folder](#create-a-folder), you can grant the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role at the level of the folder.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Create a folder

Your service account must have the following roles on the organization, the folder, or by inheritance:

- [Folder Admin]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#folder-admin)

1. Go to the **Clusters** page. The folders and clusters at the root of the organization are shown.

> 1. If you have permission to create folders at the root of the organization, the **Create folder** displays. Click it to create a folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If you have permission to create folders at the root of the organization, the **Create folder** option is displayed. Click it to create a folder.
```

- [Cluster Administrator]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#cluster-administrator), [Cluster Developer]({%link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#cluster-developer), [Cluster Creator]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#cluster-creator), or [Cluster Operator]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#cluster-operator).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
Keep the following in mind:

- When your organization enables the use of folders, the **Clusters** list contains less detailed information about a given cluster. To see all of the details about a cluster, view its **Details** page.

> - To discover the entire folder structure, you must list each folder's contents separately.

Author: Thanks, yes this is better now that we have a UI.

When you move a folder, users or service accounts who had access to the previous location through inheritance may lose access to its descendant folders and clusters. Roles granted directly on a folder or a cluster do not change when the folder or cluster is moved.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

To move a folder and its contents into another folder:

1. Go to the **Clusters** page. The folders and clusters at the root of the organization are shown.

> 1. Browse to the folder that contains the folder you want to move.

Reviewer 2: Will this suffice? If you want to move an root-level folder, it seems the folder won't be in another folder, unless I'm not understanding.

```suggestion
1. Browse to the location of the folder that you want to move.
```

To delete a folder:

1. Move or delete all descendant folders and clusters.
1. Go to the **Clusters** page. The folders and clusters at the root of the organization are shown.
1. Browse to the folder that contains the folder you want to delete.
1. Next to the folder you want to delete, click the three-dots **Action** button and select **Delete folder**.
1. Type the name of the folder to confirm, then click **Delete**.

## Limitations

- Folders can be nested a maximum of four levels deep, including the organization level.

> - Each level of the hierarchy can contain a maximum of 200 direct descendant objects (folders or clusters).

Author: Done (also in the Folder Structure section) -- did I get it right? I think this is a late-breaking change from my POV and I wasn't aware.

> - Each level of the hierarchy can contain a maximum of 200 direct descendant objects (folders or clusters).

Reviewer: You got it right!

To delete a folder:

1. Move or delete all descendant folders and clusters.
1. Go to the **Clusters** page. The folders and clusters at the root of the organization are shown.

> 1. Browse to the folder that contains the folder you want to delete.

Reviewer 2: Ditto

```suggestion
1. Browse to the location of the folder that you want to delete.
```

1. Next to the folder you want to delete, click the three-dots **Action** button and select **Delete folder**.
1. Type the name of the folder to confirm, then click **Delete**.

## Limitations

- Folders can be nested a maximum of four levels deep, including the organization level.
- An organization can have a maximum of 65 folders, regardless of how they are organized.

> - You can manage folders using the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console, the [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} API]({% link cockroachcloud/cloud-api.md %}), or the [Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cockroachdb/cockroach) v1.1.0 or above. It is not yet possible to view the folder structure, move resources, or assign the `FOLDER_ADMIN` or `FOLDER_MOVER` roles by using the `ccloud` command.

Reviewer 2: Maybe link to https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/ccloud-get-started

Author: I don't think I want to do that here since this feature specifically isn't supported by the `ccloud` command. WDYT?

Reviewer 2: I thought of that, but landed on feeling that a link would provide helpful context either way. I leave it up to you, though.

Author: Yeah I think there are better places for them to discover the `ccloud` command than in this topic where the `ccloud` command won't even work to do what they need to do.
